alright so the changes we need to make
to the code are very simple so you want
to open up our main activity of Katie
which I've got opened up here now and
let's make those changes now we've seen
how to add a synthetic import to let us
refer to the layouts widgets directly
but when we did it before we type the
import in manually so this time we're
just going to use the widget and let
Android studio take care of the import
for us so I'm going to be adding the
code to the on post execute of our
download class you can see I've got that
on the screen there and this is where
things get a little bit tricky so I'm
going to start first by adding or
creating rather the array adapter so I'm
going to do that under this last line
here and we're going to type Val array
adapter equals array adapter then we
need the Dimond operator
feed entry and then outside parentheses
now when we try to create the array
adapter Android studio suggesting that
we have to provide a context nil context
describes the application environment or
in the case of an activity the
activities environment now it knows
about things like the screen that the
activity is using in all sorts of other
configuration information now the usual
things to provide when you have to use a
context inside an activity is a
reference to the activity instance now
that would normally be this the current
activity instance but our codes not
running in main activity it's running in
this nested download data class and if
we left download data as an inner class
we wouldn't have a problem but if you
recall Android studio persuaded us to
make it a companion object and that's
just one here along the reference on
line 40 to avoid memory leaks so as a
result we no longer have access to our
containing main activity class but okay
that's not the end of the world what we
can do is we can pass in a reference to
the main activity instance when we
create the download data object so let's
see if that'll work so we've got this
cell reference here on line 41 so at the
moment we've got a sink as you can see
yeah we've got private class download
data async
then don't bracket diamond operator
stream void stream we can try changing
that so let's go ahead and put
parentheses after the download data and
in there we'll put context : contact for
the capital C comma the list view :
list view with a capital L and the
capital V now if Android studio didn't
add those imports automatically like it
did for me just use old editor to get
them the imports added in my case
because I've configured to Android
studio that way it's automatically added
the imports now we go to use the context
and list view in our class functions so
we need to provide backing fields for
the both so we're going to do that down
below the tag line here on line 44 and
by the way we'll talk about this towards
the end of the video this little pop-up
in the corner because you'll probably
get that from time to time so we're
going to type a line 46 path prop
context : context the capital C equals
context in bar I'll call this one prop
ListView : space ListView
equals littlest you fix the typo now I
don't recommend this naming convention
by the way I've just made it up but I
want to be clear that what we're
referring to
so prefixed both these backing
properties with the word prop but please
don't do this
I've done it so there's no confusion
between the properties and the
parameters passed into the class to
initialize them all right that's at this
point though we've actually got some
warnings and you've got some warnings
over here and we've also got an error
and we've still got an error both there
which would looked at type previously
which we were addressing and we've also
got another error up here relating now
to line 37 and they call turd the
download data function so the first one
a lot of 37 well that's just because we
change the Declaration of download data
but we haven't passed anything to it
let's go ahead and change that first I'm
up to here along 37 and what we'll do is
we'll add this
that's the first argument in a common
space in XML ListView as the second
argument that should fix that error up
and you can sort you saw that what I
refer to XML ListView Android studio
adds the synthetic import for us and
that lets us refer to any of the IDs in
the layout without having to keep
calling for a V my ID which obviously is
good all right so that's fixed one of
the errors but I've still got this
option here this is the error here array
adapter which we need to address we've
also got these warnings as well now
remember that the only reason we changed
download data from an inner class to a
companion object was to avoid leaks and
if we have a look at these warnings the
field leaks a context object well we can
see the first one proper context has
never used but the second warning this
field leaks a context object now if your
async task doesn't have to update the
user interface then by all means use one
if you do have to update the UI as we do
here then I'd suggest using alternative
approach and we'll see that one in a
little while but first let's see if we
get this working so what we can do is we
can avoid these leaks by using a
delegate which will result in only weak
references to the context being held so
we can come back up here to our line
again there prop context colon contexts
then we can put after the word context
by delegates not know looks like with
parentheses and we can do the same or
the next line so they're prop ListView :
ListView equals and we'll change it to
delegates dot not now
in parentheses but of course I need the
word bias well by delegates to fix it
get rid of vehicles so we're contacts by
delegates not null parentheses in the
list view by delegates doctrinal
parentheses so that should fix the
warnings we're there any getting the
warning stare about the fact that they
never used and which is correct at the
moment but I've also got this other
error to fix down here as well but first
thing what we need to do now is give our
properties given value so we need to add
an initialization block to assign the
arguments to our properties we can go
ahead and do that just under there
we can type in it in add a code block
and input in there we can type prop
context equals context and on the next
line we can type prop ListView equals
ListView
okay so that's their initialized them as
well and you can see that the warnings
no disappeared because they are actually
being used and have been initialized
correctly so that's cleared the warnings
and now we can complete the creation of
our array adapter because obviously
that's still showing an error here so we
can change it to Val array adapter
equals and we'll change it to adapter
with an e and that equals array adapter
there's feed entry and within the
parentheses now we want to update this
bring you the top prop context comma r
dot layout dot list underscore item
comma space and it's going to be Parsons
dot applications and obviously the right
parenthesis as well and you can see now
that the error has disappeared we have
got a warning here just that the fact
that the array adapter is not used but
that's okay for the moment so this
definition works but it's a bit messy
it's not also not very readable and not
immediately obvious what exactly will
happen if our activities destroyed while
the async tasks still running so I'm
going to do with that shortly now our
data if you recall is an ArrayList which
we can get from the pars applications
class by using its applications property
so you can see that if we go back to our
parse applications and look at our
ArrayList
the ArrayList that contains over here
the
a list of applications we passed out of
the XML data so all that really remains
to do is connect the data to the
ListView let's go back to our main
activity again then of the line
following that Val array adapter we're
going to type prop list view dot adapter
equals array adapter and you can see all
the warnings in errors of disappeared
now so we create a new array adapter
object now that needs three arguments
this is this code here on line 62 I'm
talking about the first is the context
I'm going to talk about context a bit
later because it's probably a good idea
to see this working first for now though
we're just kind of pass in this instance
of main activity this prop context now
the second parameter is the resource
containing the textview that the array
adapter will use to put the data into
now if you recall we created that in the
layout file list and it's go right on
Linux ml and so therefore I'm passing
out layout dot list underscore item for
the resource argument to link those two
together now the third thing it needs is
the list of objects to display and we're
over here we're using the applications
property of our pars up locations
instance to provide the ArrayList of
feed entry objects so the only other
thing to do is use the list views set
adapter method to tell it the adapter it
should use to get us data and that's all
there is to it
you had a ListView widget to your layout
you create a textview resource create an
instance of an adapter and then call the
set adaptor function to link the
ListView to the adapter or you can see
we're doing it here by just setting the
property directly in Kotlin to achieve
that and what we should be able to find
out is if we run this application we
should find that the top 10 free
applications will be displayed in a
scrollable list well just before I start
I just wanted to briefly open up our
emulators and to let you know that I'm
now using the nexus 5x API 26 and I'm
using the Google Play version of that
now there's a few reasons for that
firstly you notice in a previous video
you
to record there was lots of errors
relating to my emulator so by switching
to a nexus 5x which is or more
appropriate anyway because a nexus 4
doesn't run the latest version of
android anyway so even in an emulator it
makes sense to use a new version but the
Nexus 5x is also good because it
supports a Google Play api's and that's
really useful for testing applications
that are using Google Play so I suggest
you switch to that emulator and just to
give you a bit of a lowdown on that the
other thing I'd recommend we just go
back into Tools briefly they go into
Android going to SDK manager the other
thing I did it made sure that I had set
and click on show package details over
here the notice that under Android 8
Oreo I've got the Google Play until x86
atom system image so you want to make
sure we're using that one and not the
API the Google API is because the Google
Play 1 gives you that extra option to
run the Google Play apps or apps that
support or you use Google Play
functionality and that's very useful so
the other thing to keep in mind I'm
going to cancel out of that nail that
going back into the emulators there's
only a few devices that can actually run
this Google Play version of an emulator
Nexus 5x is one and I think Nexus 5 is
another one most likely when the new
pixel devices get released by Android
they're probably finally I'll run it as
well but if you're trying to set this
Google Play emulator
this particular version on another
device more than likely it won't work in
an emulator so just keep that in mind so
in my case what I've done is I'm using
the Nexus 5x from now on and I'll use
that for all future emulator tasks in
this course and actually got that
running now as you can see there all
right so let's now try running this and
see what happens ok running on the Nexus
5x let's have a look at it
okay you see there's our applications
our 10 applications appearing in the
list and you can notice that I can
scroll them up and down down so we're in
a scrollable a list view and things are
working nicely now if I go back to our
code go back to main activity if I chose
the limit from 10 to 25 of the URL
that's this one here on line 40 I come
over here and change that to 25 and run
our app again we'll actually see the 25
apps instead of the top 10 they can see
the list now is actually longer than
what the top 10 was before so we still
have the ones that we had before but you
can see that I'm scrolling down further
now and getting access to other apps as
well
that's clearly more than 10 apps so the
list view is able to support a variable
number of items to be shown so you don't
have to change any code to make it
display more records if you've got more
records to display all right so let's
finish the video here but before I do
that if you do get these updates and
they will come through from time to time
I suggest you actually go ahead and
install them to do that you can just
click on install and depending on when
you're watching this Android studio is
getting smarter and smarter with Kotlin
code and giving the ability to do this
automatically so click on install it
should download and install that for us
and that's just enhancements to Kotlin
into the plugin into the language who
will then need to restart to activate
the changes
and as you can see it's indexing which
will do for the first time with the
diversion but all our code is there and
if you didn't get a message like this
you click on this and click on update
runtime and again depending on where we
are what the status is with Android
studio this could be an automatic thing
but you can see that automatic library
version update for greater practice is
currently unsupported and that's
relating to : you'd find that this was
Java that would actually be working
automatically so you may not get this by
the time you get around to seeing this
but if this does come up close it down
click on the event log we can see here
that it says your version of Kotlin
runtime is Kotlin STD bitly but
basically the important part is these
numbers here 1 1 4 3 or plugin version 1
1 5 o so you just take these numbers
obviously 1 dot 1.5 hours greater than
1.1 dot 4 - 3 so i'm gonna copy the 1 1
5 oh I'm going to close down the event
log they're gonna open my Gradle scripts
I'm gonna click on this first
build.gradle you can see where it's got
xx Kotlin version equals 1 point 1 point
1 point 4 that's 3 I'm gonna change that
to the newer number and for some reason
that didn't copy I'll just try it again
copy
it doesn't copy I'll just stop it in
we'll close off the event log again back
into here and paste it let's go that's
better this time and click on sync now
and that should actually now update our
project to be using the latest version
of column you can see the other bottom
it's working away and downloading what
it needs to make that happen and the
downloads are generally a once-off pip
what would self process so they can find
that it takes a while the first time but
then once that's done it's downloaded
and these relevant files are on your
computer and subsequent to compilation
and opening projects etc will be a lot
faster
all right so I can see it's finally
finished in that we can just test that
we can actually close down the project
and open it again this time we shouldn't
get any warnings you see it's no happy
and I can close down the build Gradle
script there because so we're now
running the latest version all right so
let's finish the video here now so the
next video we'll have start having a
look at the interface because obviously
it wasn't terribly pretty if we go back
and have a quick look at it like so
we'll just run it again
so as you can see it's not terribly
pretty but I will have a look I'm seeing
what we can do to make that a little bit
nicer in the next video